Backup and Restore (#517)
italia/eidas-it-wallet-docs: docs/en/backup-restore.rst

Below, the description of the steps of :numref:`fig_Restore_flow`:

**Steps 1-6**: The User wants to restore the Digital Credentials using the backup previously created with their Wallet Instance. 
The User selects `restore Wallet` in the Wallet Instance app, where he is prompted to upload the backup file from the local storage (it is possible to upload the backup file from the cloud storage as well) and enter the recovery key phrases. 
To check the authenticity of the file, the Wallet Instance MUST verify the backup JWT's signature to ensure its authenticity. To do this, it first extracts the Wallet Attestation JWT from ``wallet_attestation`` claim and obtains the related public key using the Wallet Attestation (``cnf`` claim).

**Steps 7-8**: The Wallet Instance for each HW binding credentials entry in the payload of the backup JWT performs the following steps:

- It extracts ``iss``, ``credential_configuration_id`` from the entry. The former is used to identify the Issuer and obtains its metadata, while the latter will be used to signal the credential type to the (Q)EAA provider. 

> - Using the Issuer identifier the Wallet Instance obtains the metadata of the (Q)EAA Provider and makes a re-issuance request to the (Q)EAA by providing the new HW key to bind the credential. 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- Using the Issuer identifier the Wallet Instance obtains the metadata of the (Q)EAA Provider and makes a re-issuance request to the (Q)EAA by providing the new cryptographic binding with the Credential. 
```

.. _backup-restore.rst:

Backup and Restore
++++++++++++++++++

> The **Backup and Restore** functionality becomes relevant when the User can no longer access the Digital Credentials stored on the mobile device where the Wallet Instance was installed. Situations that may require the User to utilize this functionality include:

Reviewer 2: I think it is more correct to say that the backup and restore functionality is important in cases where the user wants to change device and/or wallet solution. In case of loss of the device, and consequently access to the credentials, only the restore would be an alternative while the backup would no longer be possible.

```suggestion
The **Backup and Restore** functionality becomes relevant when the User wants to change device and/or Wallet Solution in order to access the previously issued Digital Credentials again.
```

.. _fig_Backup_flow:
.. figure:: ../../images/Backup_flow.svg
   :name: Sequence Diagram for Wallet Instance Backup
   :alt: The figure illustrates the sequence diagram for backup flow, with the steps explained below.
   :target: https://www.plantuml.com/plantuml/png/VP5HRzGm3CVVyodClMn8j1KmU9YcqxPZe8bDEkaqyG1eIbFlQaYJAd4uAhJlJj96WuvZUMhj_y_-spxrB1s7JejdP9GE3KBBtFlZgd9oLsw9sr07ZqvPmsYuLBQhUYrDOWhFZQQwMXqLwnIwkRwgEkaPNGpThY8XoQ0h-rHVICNMmKsi1TB38dqiXDWCKT_TdjjW6kc6mvtK6dbZTM2oviMaE_3m3d-GmiLp-2KWlltOfV4iZSA8VHe3a2CPpE_1sM6Wt24A6TsTJCezkbggxw4_wsc3Blc8rFaOWhFr9UHW9k_5dEriJHetR9tS9l1w_Cy3mPLLKaFE9fUvnhqG1t3nizUaY47BmGO6sNmBdZiq37VMGMyzfIsHsOfP5oW-jzGqQBuMIvYlHeXnt28c0i4nB4xgvSiIyZGhXv5YajgVLFLo8QBc96aVBs02NvNm0GqwoGWVSO1rwwJ7FsWYKxj9_ReSvzmZVLmT_j_og4mcKyCBezpGCpQGpRydZK_K2pHLU5F-Y-vp_8GKlXY8QTWHjx1sjkkdW_oL6-zQhRGDJRvkzlQm_ld5fePlInZ1ENAAfWcT_Wq0
   
   Backup flow.

Below, the description of the steps of :numref:`fig_Backup_flow`:

**Step 1**: The User selects the option to back up Credentials stored within the Wallet Instance. 

**Steps 2-3**: The Wallet Instance using the backup APIs randomly selects 10 key phrases from a pre-generated list of words and displays it to the User. 

> The User MUST securely store the key phrases (e.g., in a password manager or a physical safe) as they are critical for restoring the backup.

Reviewer 2: why are we talking about 10 key phrases? is it a single key phrases composed by 10 words or is it a list for the user to choose from? if the latter, I suggest to specify: 

```suggestion
The User MUST securely store the key phrase chosen from those proposed by the system (e.g., in a password manager or a physical safe) as they are critical for restoring the backup.
```

Author: It is a single key phrase consisting of 10 words.

.. note::
  
  To extract the key from the list of selected words a key derivation function MUST be applied. Password-Based-Key-Derivation Function 2 (PBKDF2) is among the mostly used ones based on `RFC 2898`_ and it is recommended by the `NIST 800-132 <https://nvlpubs.nist.gov/nistpubs/Legacy/SP/nistspecialpublication800-132.pdf>`_. There are other relevant techniques that are available and used widely, such as Bcrypt, Scrypt, and Argon2. More details on this approach can be found `here <https://cryptobook.nakov.com/mac-and-key-derivation/kdf-deriving-key-from-password>`_.

.. note::
  
  The work factor for PBKDF2 is implemented through an iteration count, which should set differently based on the internal hashing algorithm used. The recommended value for ``SHA-256`` hashing algorithim is 600000 iterations as stated in the `OWASP Password Storage Cheatsheet <https://cheatsheetseries.owasp.org/cheatsheets/Password_Storage_Cheat_Sheet.html#pbkdf2>`_.

> **Step 4**: The Wallet Instance performs the operations below to create the backup JWT entry for the backup file. 

Reviewer 2: Do we think it might be useful to include an instruction sheet in the backup file? clear instructions to guide the user step by step must be provided during both backup and restore, but I think it might be useful to consider including an instruction sheet in the backup file as well

Author: I am not sure to understand your point. if you meant the instructions that are shown to the user by the Wallet when the backup is initiated, why do we need this in the backup file? Is not it related to the implementation?

Reviewer: @RosaliaGaleano instruction sheet would be provisioned outside of the backup

 
- For each of the HW bound key Credentials, add the Credential Issuer identifier and the ``credential_configuration_id`` as an entry in the backup JWT. 
- Sign the backup JWT using the private key that its public key is attested within the Wallet Attestation. The related public key that is attested by the Wallet Provider is provided within the Wallet Attestation (``cnf`` claim). The Wallet Instance MUST verify the validity of the Wallet Attestation before signing the backup JWT.
- Add the signed backup JWT as an entry to the backup file. 

> - Encrypt the backup file using the provided key phrases. 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- Encrypt the backup file using one of the provided key phrases. 
```

Reviewer 3: It is only one key phrase that is composed of 10 words. 
```suggestion
- Encrypt the backup file using the provided key phrase. 
```

Author: It is not correct to say one of the provided key phrases. It is one key phrase consisting of 10 words.

> - Encrypt the backup file using the provided key phrases. 

Author: ```suggestion
- Encrypt the backup file using the provided key phrase. 
```

.. _backup-restore.rst:

Backup and Restore
++++++++++++++++++
The **Backup and Restore** functionality becomes relevant when the User can no longer access the Digital Credentials stored on the mobile device where the Wallet Instance was installed. Situations that may require the User to utilize this functionality include:

- The mobile device has been **lost**, **stolen**, **damaged**, or **compromised** (e.g., due to unauthorized access).
- The User replaces an existing Wallet Instance with a new instance of the same Wallet Solution.
- The User has changed their mobile device and needs to set up the Wallet Solution on the new device.
- The User performs a factory reset on the current phone and needs to set up the Wallet Solution again.

.. note::
  

>   The Backup and Restore functionality differs from migrating to another Wallet Solution (also known as Data Portability). In the latter scenario, the User wishes to transition from their current Wallet Solution to a different one, possibly because the current solution is no longer supported, as highlighted in Annex 2 of ARF.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
  The Backup and Restore functionality differs from migrating to another Wallet Solution (also known as Data Portability). In the latter scenario, the User wishes to transition from their current Wallet Solution to a different one, possibly because the current solution is no longer supported, as highlighted in Annex 2 of `EIDAS-ARF`_.
```

The User MUST write down or store the key phrases in a secure place as the backup is encrypted using the generated phrases. 

.. note::
  
  As highlighted in the `ARF`_, the reason for encryption is due to the fact that the backup file is considered sensitive. Indeed, even if the attacker knows only the 
  Issuer identifiers of the Digital Credentials, it enables him to know the different types of Digital Credentials and this is a violation of user privacy.

.. note::
  
  To extract the key from the list of selected words a key derivation function MUST be applied. Password-Based-Key-Derivation Function 2 (PBKDF2) is among the mostly used ones based on `RFC 2898`_ and it is recommended by the `NIST 800-132 <https://nvlpubs.nist.gov/nistpubs/Legacy/SP/nistspecialpublication800-132.pdf>`_. There are other relevant techniques that are available and used widely, such as Bcrypt, Scrypt, and Argon2 (used by Hyperledger Indy within Connect.me Wallet). More details on this approach can be found `here <https://cryptobook.nakov.com/mac-and-key-derivation/kdf-deriving-key-from-password>`_.

> **Step 4**: The Wallet Instance performs the operations below to create the backup file. 

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
**Step 4**: The Wallet Instance performs the operations below to create the backup JWT entry for the backup file. 
```

> - For each of the HW bound key credentials, add the ``iss``, ``credential_configuration_id`` as an entry in the backup file. 
> - Sign the backup file using the private key that its public key is attested within the Wallet Attestation. The related public key that is attested by the Wallet Provider is provided within the Wallet Attestation (``cnf`` claim). The Wallet Instance MUST verify the validity of the Wallet Attestation before signing the backup file.
> - Encrypt the backup file using the provided key phrases. 

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
- For each of the HW bound key credentials, add the ``iss``, ``credential_configuration_id`` as an entry in the backup JWT. 
- Sign the backup JWT using the private key that its public key is attested within the Wallet Attestation. The related public key that is attested by the Wallet Provider is provided within the Wallet Attestation (``cnf`` claim). The Wallet Instance MUST verify the validity of the Wallet Attestation before signing the backup JWT.
- Add the signed backup JWT as an entry to the backup file. 
- Encrypt the backup file using the provided key phrases. 
```

**Step 5**: The User will be prompted to select the storage for securely storing the backup file based on his preference. This can range from native storage to external storage (e.g., cloud storage, usb, etc.). 

**Step 6**: Considering the native storage as the preferred choice, the file will be stored on the User device.

> A non-normative example of the backup file is as the following:

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
A non-normative example of the backup JWT is as the following:
```

  The Backup JWT MAY contain transaction history for each Credential entry within the ``credentials_backup`` claim.

  

> **Step 5**: The User will be prompted to choose a storage option for securely storing the backup file. Options may include native storage or external storage solutions, such as cloud storage or USB devices.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
**Step 5**: The User will be prompted to choose a storage option for securely storing the backup file. Options may include native storage or external storage solutions, such as cloud storage, USB devices, e-mail delivery or any other.
```

> **Step 6**: Considering the native storage as the preferred choice, the file will be stored on the User device.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
**Step 6**: In the case where the User prefers the native storage, the backup file is stored on the User device.
```

A non-normative example of the backup JWT is as the following:
 
 .. code-block::
  
  { 
    "alg": "ES256",   

>     "kid": "pDV1n6WNT4qFx2JbTv7S66WE55BkmHNyuEKO4JctiPw",

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```

     {  
        "iss": "https://issuer.example.org/v1.0/mdl",
        "credential_configuration_id":"org.iso.18013-5.1.mDL"
     },
     {  
        "iss": "https://eaa-provider.example.org/",
        "credential_configuration_id":"EuropeanDisabilityCard"
     },
   ]
  }

> The JOSE header of the backup JWT MUST contain the following REQUIRED claims:

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
The JOSE header of the backup JWT MUST contain the following REQUIRED parameters:
```

  }

The JOSE header of the backup JWT MUST contain the following REQUIRED parameters:

.. list-table::
    :widths: 20 60 20
    :header-rows: 1

    * - **JOSE header**
      - **Description**
      - **Reference**
    * - **alg**
      - A digital signature algorithm identifier such as per IANA "JSON Web Signature and Encryption Algorithms" registry. It MUST be one of the supported algorithms listed in the Section `Cryptographic Algorithms <algorithms.html>`_ and MUST NOT be set to ``none`` or any symmetric algorithm (MAC) identifier.
      - :rfc:`7516#section-4.1.1`.

>     * - **kid**
>       -  Unique identifier of the ``jwk`` inside the ``cnf`` claim of Wallet Instance as base64url-encoded JWK Thumbprint value.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```

>       - :rfc:`7638#section_3`.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```

   :name: Sequence Diagram for Wallet Instance Restore
   :alt: The figure illustrates the sequence diagram for restore flow, with the steps explained below.
   :target: https://www.plantuml.com/plantuml/png/TP5DRnCn48Rl-ok6N9fAP5T0-L0LHVrea2fQ4OWg3e2gsVKqCNZjbJrk6w7-T-or5TYssPCpVfzd9kCZnsZPjwfu8NMZl21OCtVkiAeitfKhoMjVUqUsCPf9SzcOjkeKwiXC70ibw-hqOBA8fQlBYwf5nsH3wVeq42WrsRAB_W8RDXQkWWlGmIWUHaMnt8HyUtrYl1PeD-CxL8fuQPHdQVJBbDjpS4Qtig7HFlmf87pFO-VQCUg60lQjBq2kP31_syd6NkOE8SXaRp0cdydLsFpstN4dbsJZ784wwKjml3Y7NCpaGr4CuTRKKj6IZSLL92_xt_aVmOLfK46wJMCcoSDsD_Dx7fyxvya6E1r2gs8FvlUTaeraKBWndW75B--u9SrmOonqnicuHAbNnM06c7nVIo58_vpCOBYvgFrA2YFdrh9pHR-TaFCI3c4qhMUlof1mmKIGbZojwjaevQQJVxdN9IoiQJi6Dd3LAOC2yj8-IaK3QWR30PFXJGbBKjJm_npS12dau5QIHqpSGT_vLWg2kMxifcCI0mLg4MuuK9ze0ukrHKSkkRoCfiVldRnlozs-fwR7ZjtUToMSKVP65dxeKCqDaYmzEpnvhoHuNyBdcb5gk2H6WOn3RBg3-r12du3nb_tv_BXde3WYBNoh_W80
   
   Restore flow.

Considering that the User has initialized the new Wallet Instance and it is in active state by obtaining a new PID, this specification relaxes the requirement of the ARF concerning the addition of the PID in the backup file. 
Below, the description of the steps of :numref:`fig_Restore_flow`:

> **Steps 1-6**: The User wants to restore the Wallet with the backup that the User has from the previous Wallet Instance. 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
**Steps 1-6**: The User wants to restore the Digital Credentials using the backup previously created with their Wallet Instance. 
```

The User selects `restore Wallet` in the Wallet Instance app, where he is prompted to upload the backup file from the local storage (it is possible to upload the backup file from the cloud storage as well) and enter the recovery key phrases. 

> To check the authenticity of the file, it MUST verify the signature of the backup file. To do this, it first extracts the Wallet Attestation JWT from ``wallet_attestation`` claim and obtains the related public key using the Wallet Attestation (``cnf`` claim).

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
To check the authenticity of the file, it MUST verify the signature of the backup JWT. To do this, it first extracts the Wallet Attestation JWT from ``wallet_attestation`` claim and obtains the related public key using the Wallet Attestation (``cnf`` claim).
```

> The User selects `restore Wallet` in the Wallet Instance app, where he is prompted to upload the backup file from the local storage (it is possible to upload the backup file from the cloud storage as well) and enter the recovery key phrases. 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The User selects `restore Digital Credentials backup` in the Wallet Instance app and a prompt with the import function is provided to the User. The backup file to be imported can be provided using a local storage or a remote location using a cloud storage as well, and therefore submit the recovery key phrases. 
```

> **Steps 7-8**: The Wallet Instance for each HW binding credentials entry in the backup file performs the following steps:

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
**Steps 7-8**: The Wallet Instance for each HW binding credentials entry in the payload of the backup JWT performs the following steps:
```

> - It extracts ``iss``, ``credential_configuration_id`` from the entry. The former is used to identify the Issuer and obtains its metadata, while the latter will be used to signal the credential type to the (Q)EAA provider. 

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
- It extracts the Credential Issuer identifier and the ``credential_configuration_id`` from the entry. The former is used to identify the Issuer and obtains its metadata, while the latter will be used to signal the Credential type to the (Q)EAA provider. 
```

-----------

.. _fig_Backup_flow:
.. figure:: ../../images/Backup_flow.svg
   :name: Sequence Diagram for Wallet Instance Backup
   :alt: The figure illustrates the sequence diagram for backup flow, with the steps explained below.
   :target: https://www.plantuml.com/plantuml/png/VP5HRzGm3CVVyodClMn8j1KmU9YcqxPZe8bDEkaqyG1eIbFlQaYJAd4uAhJlJj96WuvZUMhj_y_-spxrB1s7JejdP9GE3KBBtFlZgd9oLsw9sr07ZqvPmsYuLBQhUYrDOWhFZQQwMXqLwnIwkRwgEkaPNGpThY8XoQ0h-rHVICNMmKsi1TB38dqiXDWCKT_TdjjW6kc6mvtK6dbZTM2oviMaE_3m3d-GmiLp-2KWlltOfV4iZSA8VHe3a2CPpE_1sM6Wt24A6TsTJCezkbggxw4_wsc3Blc8rFaOWhFr9UHW9k_5dEriJHetR9tS9l1w_Cy3mPLLKaFE9fUvnhqG1t3nizUaY47BmGO6sNmBdZiq37VMGMyzfIsHsOfP5oW-jzGqQBuMIvYlHeXnt28c0i4nB4xgvSiIyZGhXv5YajgVLFLo8QBc96aVBs02NvNm0GqwoGWVSO1rwwJ7FsWYKxj9_ReSvzmZVLmT_j_og4mcKyCBezpGCpQGpRydZK_K2pHLU5F-Y-vp_8GKlXY8QTWHjx1sjkkdW_oL6-zQhRGDJRvkzlQm_ld5fePlInZ1ENAAfWcT_Wq0
   
   Backup flow.

Below, the description of the steps of :numref:`fig_Backup_flow`:

**Step 1**: The User clicks on the backup credentials option in the Wallet Instance. 

**Steps 2-3**: The Wallet Instance using the Backup APIs randomly selects 10 key phrases from a pre-generated list of words and displays it to the User. 

> The User MUST write down or store the key phrases in a secure place as the backup is encrypted using the generated phrases. 

Reviewer 5: ```suggestion
The User MUST securely store the key phrases (e.g., in a password manager or a physical safe) as they are critical for restoring the backup.
```

.. note::
  
  As highlighted in the `ARF`_, the reason for encryption is due to the fact that the backup file is considered sensitive. Indeed, even if the attacker knows only the 
  Issuer identifiers of the Digital Credentials, it enables him to know the different types of Digital Credentials and this is a violation of user privacy.

.. note::
  

>   To extract the key from the list of selected words a key derivation function MUST be applied. Password-Based-Key-Derivation Function 2 (PBKDF2) is among the mostly used ones based on `RFC 2898`_ and it is recommended by the `NIST 800-132 <https://nvlpubs.nist.gov/nistpubs/Legacy/SP/nistspecialpublication800-132.pdf>`_. There are other relevant techniques that are available and used widely, such as Bcrypt, Scrypt, and Argon2 (used by Hyperledger Indy within Connect.me Wallet). More details on this approach can be found `here <https://cryptobook.nakov.com/mac-and-key-derivation/kdf-deriving-key-from-password>`_.

Reviewer 5: Add a note that specifies a suggested value for iterations of PBKDF2 (e.g. 100,000 iterations at least)

Author: Added

    "credentials_backup":[
     {  
        "iss": "https://issuer.example.org/v1.0/mdl",
        "credential_configuration_id":"org.iso.18013-5.1.mDL"
     },
     {  
        "iss": "https://eaa-provider.example.org/",
        "credential_configuration_id":"EuropeanDisabilityCard"
     },
   ]
  }

The JOSE header of the backup JWT MUST contain the following REQUIRED parameters:

.. list-table::
    :widths: 20 60 20
    :header-rows: 1

    * - **JOSE header**
      - **Description**
      - **Reference**
    * - **alg**
      - A digital signature algorithm identifier such as per IANA "JSON Web Signature and Encryption Algorithms" registry. It MUST be one of the supported algorithms listed in the Section `Cryptographic Algorithms <algorithms.html>`_ and MUST NOT be set to ``none`` or any symmetric algorithm (MAC) identifier.
      - :rfc:`7516#section-4.1.1`.
    * - **kid**
      -  Unique identifier of the ``jwk`` inside the ``cnf`` claim of Wallet Instance as base64url-encoded JWK Thumbprint value.
      - :rfc:`7638#section_3`.
    * - **typ**
      -  It MUST be set to ``wallet-instance-backup+jwt``

>       - 

Reviewer 5: ```suggestion
      - N/A
```

   
   Restore flow.

Considering that the User has initialized the new Wallet Instance and it is in active state by obtaining a new PID, this specification relaxes the requirement of the ARF concerning the addition of the PID in the backup file. 
Below, the description of the steps of :numref:`fig_Restore_flow`:

**Steps 1-6**: The User wants to restore the Wallet with the backup that the User has from the previous Wallet Instance. 
The User selects `restore Wallet` in the Wallet Instance app, where he is prompted to upload the backup file from the local storage (it is possible to upload the backup file from the cloud storage as well) and enter the recovery key phrases. 

> To check the authenticity of the file, it MUST verify the signature of the backup JWT. To do this, it first extracts the Wallet Attestation JWT from ``wallet_attestation`` claim and obtains the related public key using the Wallet Attestation (``cnf`` claim).

Reviewer 5: ```suggestion
To check the authenticity of the file, the Wallet Instance MUST verify the backup JWT's signature to ensure its authenticity. To do this, it first extracts the Wallet Attestation JWT from ``wallet_attestation`` claim and obtains the related public key using the Wallet Attestation (``cnf`` claim).
```

      -  Unique identifier of the ``jwk`` inside the ``cnf`` claim of Wallet Instance as base64url-encoded JWK Thumbprint value.
      - :rfc:`7638#section_3`.
    * - **typ**
      -  It MUST be set to ``wallet-unit-credentials-backup+jwt``
      - N/A

The body of backup JWT contains the following REQUIRED claims:

.. list-table::
    :widths: 20 60 
    :header-rows: 1

    * - **Claim**
      - **Description**
    * - **timestamp**
      - UNIX timestamp with the time of backup file creation. This value is updated every time a new credential entry is added to the backup file.
    * - **wallet_provider_id**
      - It MUST be set to the unique identifier of the Wallet Provider.
    * - **wallet_instance_version**
      - It MUST be set to  the version of the Wallet Solution that has been backed up.
    * - **wallet_attestation**
      - It MUST be set to a value containing the Wallet Attestation JWT. 
    * - **credentials_backup**
      - Array of JSON objects that contains the following claims for each Credentials that are backupped:
        
        - ``iss``: Credential Issuer identifier. It provides the identifier of the Credential Issuer to initiate the issuance phase.

>         - ``credential_configuration_id``: Unique identifier of the Digital Credential. It provides a way to identify the specific Digital Credential that is issued, in case the Issuer can issue multiple Digital Credentials. This parameter then can be automatically filled in the authorization request during the re-issuance.

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
      - Object that describes specifics of the Credential that are backupped. This object contains a list of name/value pairs, where each name is a unique identifier of the Credential Issuer. This identifier is used to initiate the issuance phase. The value is an array of unique strings. Each string corresponds to the ``credential_configuration_id`` that identifies the specific Digital Credential that was issued.
```

  In the latter case, we are dealing with a scenario in which the User wants to migrate from his current Wallet Solution to a different one due to ceases to support the Wallet Solution as highlighted in Annex 2 of `ARF`_.    

Backup Flow
-----------

.. _fig_Backup_flow:
.. figure:: ../../images/Backup_flow.svg
   :name: Sequence Diagram for Wallet Instance Backup
   :alt: The figure illustrates the sequence diagram for backup flow, with the steps explained below.
   :target: https://www.plantuml.com/plantuml/png/VP5HRzGm3CVVyodClMn8j1KmU9YcqxPZe8bDEkaqyG1eIbFlQaYJAd4uAhJlJj96WuvZUMhj_y_-spxrB1s7JejdP9GE3KBBtFlZgd9oLsw9sr07ZqvPmsYuLBQhUYrDOWhFZQQwMXqLwnIwkRwgEkaPNGpThY8XoQ0h-rHVICNMmKsi1TB38dqiXDWCKT_TdjjW6kc6mvtK6dbZTM2oviMaE_3m3d-GmiLp-2KWlltOfV4iZSA8VHe3a2CPpE_1sM6Wt24A6TsTJCezkbggxw4_wsc3Blc8rFaOWhFr9UHW9k_5dEriJHetR9tS9l1w_Cy3mPLLKaFE9fUvnhqG1t3nizUaY47BmGO6sNmBdZiq37VMGMyzfIsHsOfP5oW-jzGqQBuMIvYlHeXnt28c0i4nB4xgvSiIyZGhXv5YajgVLFLo8QBc96aVBs02NvNm0GqwoGWVSO1rwwJ7FsWYKxj9_ReSvzmZVLmT_j_og4mcKyCBezpGCpQGpRydZK_K2pHLU5F-Y-vp_8GKlXY8QTWHjx1sjkkdW_oL6-zQhRGDJRvkzlQm_ld5fePlInZ1ENAAfWcT_Wq0
   
   Backup flow.

Below, the description of the steps of :numref:`fig_Backup_flow`:

> **Step 1**: The User clicks on the backup credentials option in the Wallet Instance. 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
**Step 1**: The User selects the option to back up Credentials stored within the Wallet Instance. 
```

> **Steps 2-3**: The Wallet Instance using the Backup APIs randomly selects 10 key phrases from a pre-generated list of words and displays it to the User. 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
**Steps 2-3**: The Wallet Instance using the backup APIs randomly selects 10 key phrases from a pre-generated list of words and displays it to the User. 
```

Reviewer: @RosaliaGaleano non vogliamo dare la possibilità all'utente di decidere la sua passphrase?
a livello di UX cosa comporta all'utente dover usare una parola segreta arbitraria e generata da una terza parte?

Reviewer 5: Potentially it is less secure, in fact all wallet systems that contain cryptographic material such as those for cryptocurrencies all use the same approach.

> The User MUST securely store the key phrases (e.g., in a password manager or a physical safe) as they are critical for restoring the backup.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The User MUST securely store the key phrases (e.g., in a password manager or a physical safe) as they are critical for restoring the backup.
```
I am not sure that this is the best secure way to keep the password safe.

Reviewer 5: It is up to the user to decide where to save their passwords, it cannot be regulated

.. note::
  

>   As highlighted in the `ARF`_, the reason for encryption is due to the fact that the backup file is considered sensitive. Indeed, even if the attacker knows only the 
>   Issuer identifiers of the Digital Credentials, it enables him to know the different types of Digital Credentials and this is a violation of user privacy.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
  As highlighted in the ARF, encryption is necessary because the backup file is considered sensitive. Even if an attacker only knows the Issuer identifiers, they can infer the different types of Digital Credentials, which constitutes a violation of User privacy.
```

.. note::
  

>   To extract the key from the list of selected words a key derivation function MUST be applied. Password-Based-Key-Derivation Function 2 (PBKDF2) is among the mostly used ones based on `RFC 2898`_ and it is recommended by the `NIST 800-132 <https://nvlpubs.nist.gov/nistpubs/Legacy/SP/nistspecialpublication800-132.pdf>`_. There are other relevant techniques that are available and used widely, such as Bcrypt, Scrypt, and Argon2 (used by Hyperledger Indy within Connect.me Wallet). More details on this approach can be found `here <https://cryptobook.nakov.com/mac-and-key-derivation/kdf-deriving-key-from-password>`_.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
  To extract the key from the list of selected words a key derivation function MUST be applied. Password-Based-Key-Derivation Function 2 (PBKDF2) is among the mostly used ones based on `RFC 2898`_ and it is recommended by the `NIST 800-132 <https://nvlpubs.nist.gov/nistpubs/Legacy/SP/nistspecialpublication800-132.pdf>`_. There are other relevant techniques that are available and used widely, such as Bcrypt, Scrypt, and Argon2. More details on this approach can be found `here <https://cryptobook.nakov.com/mac-and-key-derivation/kdf-deriving-key-from-password>`_.
```

.. note::
  

>   The work factor for PBKDF2 is implemented through an iteration count, which should set differently based on the internal hashing algorithm used. The recommended value for ``SHA-256`` hashing algorithim is 600,000 iterations as stated in the `OWASP Password Storage Cheatsheet <https://cheatsheetseries.owasp.org/cheatsheets/Password_Storage_Cheat_Sheet.html#pbkdf2>`_.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
  The work factor for PBKDF2 is implemented through an iteration count, which should set differently based on the internal hashing algorithm used. The recommended value for ``SHA-256`` hashing algorithim is 600000 iterations as stated in the `OWASP Password Storage Cheatsheet <https://cheatsheetseries.owasp.org/cheatsheets/Password_Storage_Cheat_Sheet.html#pbkdf2>`_.
```

**Step 4**: The Wallet Instance performs the operations below to create the backup JWT entry for the backup file. 
 

> - For each of the HW bound key credentials, add the ``iss``, ``credential_configuration_id`` as an entry in the backup JWT. 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- For each of the HW bound key Credentials, add the ``iss``, ``credential_configuration_id`` as an entry in the backup JWT. 
```

> - Sign the backup JWT using the private key that its public key is attested within the Wallet Attestation. The related public key that is attested by the Wallet Provider is provided within the Wallet Attestation (``cnf`` claim). The Wallet Instance MUST verify the validity of the Wallet Attestation before signing the backup JWT.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- Sign the backup JWT using the private key that its public key is attested within the Wallet Attestation. The related public key that is attested by the Wallet Provider is provided within the Wallet Attestation (``cnf`` claim). The Wallet Instance MUST verify the validity of the Wallet Attestation before signing the backup JWT.
```

I don't understand why the issuer of the JWT (WU) must verify the signature issued by itself.

Author: Here, the validity does not mean a signature check, it means checking if the Wallet Attestation is expired or not.

Reviewer 5: Furthermore, the backup can also be restored on other instances of other Wallet Providers, therefore it is necessary that there is also a signature of the provider itself.

- Add the signed backup JWT as an entry to the backup file. 
- Encrypt the backup file using the provided key phrases. 

.. note::

>   The Backup JWT MAY contain transaction history for each credential entry within the ``credentials_backup`` claim.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
  The Backup JWT MAY contain transaction history for each Credential entry within the ``credentials_backup`` claim.
```

> **Step 5**: The User will be prompted to select the storage for securely storing the backup file based on his preference. This can range from native storage to external storage (e.g., cloud storage, usb, etc.). 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
**Step 5**: The User will be prompted to choose a storage option for securely storing the backup file. Options may include native storage or external storage solutions, such as cloud storage or USB devices.
```

**Step 6**: Considering the native storage as the preferred choice, the file will be stored on the User device.

A non-normative example of the backup JWT is as the following:
 
 .. code-block::
  
  { 
    "alg": "ES256",   
    "kid": "pDV1n6WNT4qFx2JbTv7S66WE55BkmHNyuEKO4JctiPw",

>     "typ": "wallet_instance_backup+jwt",    

Reviewer: ```suggestion
    "typ": "wallet-unit-credentials-backup+jwt",    
```

  }
  .
  {
    "timestamp":"2024-12-13T16:35:06+01:00",
    "wallet_provider_id":"https://wallet-provider.example.org/",
    "wallet_instance_version":"v1.0",
    "wallet_attestation":"eyJhbGciOiJFUzI1NiIsImVVfQz.eyJpc3MiOiAiaH...LCAibmJ",

>     "credentials_backup":[
>      {  
>         "iss": "https://issuer.example.org/v1.0/mdl",
>         "credential_configuration_id":"org.iso.18013-5.1.mDL"
>      },
>      {  
>         "iss": "https://eaa-provider.example.org/",
>         "credential_configuration_id":"EuropeanDisabilityCard"
>      },
>    ]

Reviewer: ```suggestion
    "credentials_backup": {  
        "https://issuer.example.org/v1.0/mdl": ["org.iso.18013-5.1.mDL"],
        "https://eaa-provider.example.org/": ["EuropeanDisabilityCard"]
     },
```

this is more simple and allows to select an particular issuer without iterating upon all the entries

  }

> The JOSE header of the backup JWT MUST contain the following REQUIRED parameters:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The JOSE header of the backup JWT MUST contain the following REQUIRED parameters:
```

why do we use JWT and not CWT? We would reduce the payload size

Reviewer 5: It becomes more complicated to manage and requires ad-hoc implementations that we do not have for now. It is much simpler to use a JWT because the difference in terms of size is really negligible. We are talking about a few Kb

.. list-table::
    :widths: 20 60 20
    :header-rows: 1

    * - **JOSE header**
      - **Description**
      - **Reference**
    * - **alg**
      - A digital signature algorithm identifier such as per IANA "JSON Web Signature and Encryption Algorithms" registry. It MUST be one of the supported algorithms listed in the Section `Cryptographic Algorithms <algorithms.html>`_ and MUST NOT be set to ``none`` or any symmetric algorithm (MAC) identifier.
      - :rfc:`7516#section-4.1.1`.
    * - **kid**
      -  Unique identifier of the ``jwk`` inside the ``cnf`` claim of Wallet Instance as base64url-encoded JWK Thumbprint value.
      - :rfc:`7638#section_3`.
    * - **typ**

>       -  It MUST be set to ``wallet-instance-backup+jwt``

Reviewer: ```suggestion
      -  It MUST be set to ``wallet-unit-credentials-backup+jwt``
```

      - N/A

The body of backup JWT contains the following REQUIRED claims:

.. list-table::
    :widths: 20 60 
    :header-rows: 1

    * - **Claim**
      - **Description**
    * - **timestamp**
      - UNIX timestamp with the time of backup file creation. This value is updated every time a new credential entry is added to the backup file.
    * - **wallet_provider_id**

>       - It MUST be set to the identifier of the Wallet Provider.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
      - It MUST be set to the unique identifier of the Wallet Provider.
```

    * - **wallet_instance_version**
      - It MUST be set to  the version of the Wallet Solution that has been backed up.

>     * - **wallet_attestation**

Reviewer: IA brings wallet unit attestation

Reviewer 5: For now, let's stay aligned with the technical rules. As soon as we introduce the Wallet Unit Attestation, we will also update this paragraph, otherwise we create inconsistency.

      - It MUST be set to a value containing the Wallet Attestation JWT. 
    * - **credentials_backup**

>       - Array of JSON objects that contains the following claims for each credentials that are backuped:

Reviewer: array or JSON Object?

Reviewer 4: We are going to change the text to be in line with your proposal

>       - Array of JSON objects that contains the following claims for each credentials that are backuped:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
      - Array of JSON objects that contains the following claims for each Credentials that are backupped:
```

.. _backup-restore.rst:

Backup and Restore
++++++++++++++++++

> The relevant scenario for the **Backup and Restore** functionality is when the User can no longer access the Digital Credentials that were stored on the mobile device on which the Wallet Instance was installed. 
> The situations that may demand the User to use this functionality are as the following:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The **Backup and Restore** functionality becomes relevant when the User can no longer access the Digital Credentials stored on the mobile device where the Wallet Instance was installed. Situations that may require the User to utilize this functionality include:
```

> - The mobile device has either been **lost**, **stolen**, **broken** or **hacked** (e.g., a result of unauthorized access to the device).
> - The User replaces an existing installation of a Wallet Solution with a **new installation of the same Wallet Solution**.
> - The User has **changed his mobile device** and need to setup the Wallet Solution in his new mobile device.
> - The User **factory resets** the current phone and needs to set up the Wallet Solution again.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- The mobile device has been **lost**, **stolen**, **damaged**, or **compromised** (e.g., due to unauthorized access).
- The User replaces an existing Wallet Instance with a new instance of the same Wallet Solution.
- The User has changed their mobile device and needs to set up the Wallet Solution on the new device.
- The User performs a factory reset on the current phone and needs to set up the Wallet Solution again.
```

.. note::
  
  The Backup and Restore functionality is different from migrating to another Wallet Solution (a.k.a. Data portability). 

>   In the latter case, we are dealing with a scenario in which the User wants to migrate from his current Wallet Solution to a different one due to ceases to support the Wallet Solution as highlighted in Annex 2 of `ARF`_.    

Reviewer: ```suggestion
  The Backup and Restore functionality differs from migrating to another Wallet Solution (also known as Data Portability). In the latter scenario, the User wishes to transition from their current Wallet Solution to a different one, possibly because the current solution is no longer supported, as highlighted in Annex 2 of ARF.
```
